SOURCE: doc/5530.pdf
PAGE: 3
METHOD: ocr
CONFIDENCE: medium

CONTENT:
CEM 55390

Application Hints

power Supplies

As long as the maximum supply voltage between VDD (pin 43) and

vss (pin 28) is not allowed to exceed 16V, then the positive

supply (VDD) may range from 4.5V to 18V, while the negative

supply (VSS) may be between -4.5V and -l18V.

The values selected

for the supplies affect the maximum input and output voltage

swings before significant distortion:

The maximum positive swing

is 2.5V less than the positive supply, and the maximum negative

swing is 2.5V above the negative supply.

Thus, +8V supplies will

accomodate inputs and outputs between +5V and -5V, while +5V

supplies will allow voltage swings between +2.5V and -2.5V.

Supplies need not be symetrical:

For a 8 to +5V output, +8,

-2.5V to -5V supplies may be used.

The threshold levels of all logic inputs are TTL compatible and

unaffected by either supply.

Outputs

Each channel output can source up to 2mA for any positive supply.

The output sink current capability, however, is dependent on the

difference between the most negative output voltage excursion and

the negative supply, according to the following:

Io“ (mA) = .1(VSS - Vo +1)?

Thus, for an output of Vo = -2.5V with VSS = -5V, the maximum

sink current is 225uA (minimum load of 12K to ground); but for an

output of 6V with VSS = -5V, the maximum sink current rises to

1.6mA.

Since up to 2mA can be sourced by the outputs, the sink

capability for low VSS-Vo differentials may be increased with an

external pull down resistor to preferably a supply more negative

than VSS.

For example, a 19K resistor to -12V will provide 1mA

source and sink capability (2.5K minimum load for +2.5V outputs).

The outputs can handle moderate capacitive loading up to 28pF.

Much greater capacitances (up to luF) may be driven by isolating

the output from the capacitive load with a 1K series resistor.

Normally, long PC board traces from the outputs should be avoided;

if not possible, a 1K isolation resistor physically positioned

Close to the 5538 is recommended.

Basic Operation and Timing

The basic channel update cycle, shown in Figure l, begins with

INHIBIT signal returning to a high level to disable the previous

channel.

The chdnnel address and input voltage (normally from a

DAC) must not be allowed to change until the aperture time,

nominally 196nS, after INHIBIT becomes high. The length of time
