SOURCE: doc/5508.pdf
PAGE: 4
METHOD: ocr
CONFIDENCE: medium

CONTENT:
PD 508

Input & Output Considerations

rate when the low resistance state is select-

For best performance, the voltage input

(pin 3) should be driven from a tow im-

ed: The equivalent output resistance in the

pedance source, such as an op amp out-

sourcing condition is several hundred

put. In addition, a small capacitor (e.g.

ohms, while in the sinking condition, the

100-1000pF) from the op amp output

equivalent output resistance is 500-1000

back to the inverting input should be

ohms, depending on the minimum Vo-Vss

used to keep the output impedance low

even at high frequencies.

For load capacitance values greater than

To prevent possible latch-up, the input

nF, the transient currents generated in

voltage should be restricted at all times

the output stage can become much larger

and under all conditions to within the

than the recommended 5mA limit; thus for

Vpp and Vg. supplies. If the supplies to

these larger values, a 1K current limiting

the driving op amp are larger than those

resistor should be placed between output

to the 508, then there exists the possibility

and load capacitor.

of the op amp output being outside the

508 supplies, and some means, such as sig-

The value of load capacitor, of course, is

nal or Zener diodes in the feedback loop,

selected to give the desired time constant

should be added to ensure this condition

when the 50K nominal output resistor is

can never occur.

selected. A 0.1uF, for instance, will allow

the smoothing filter time constant to be

Each channel output can source up to

selectable between 5mS and approximate-

3mA steady state for any positive supply.

ly 0.15mS.

The output sink capability, however, is

dependent on the difference between the

In applications utilizing the selectable out-

put resistance feature, the filtered output

most negative output voltage excursion

and the negative supply, according to

of the 508 may require buffering by an op

amp voltage follower should the load

the following:

impedance be too low. However, in many

applications the input voltage port of the

Toginx (MA) = 0.15 (Vs5 - Vo +1)?

device to be controlled has high enough

input impedance that it may be directly

Thus, for an output of Vo = -2.5V with

Veg = -5V, the maximum sink current is

driven by the 508 outputs even in the high

output impedance mode.

330 uA (minimum load of 7.5K to ground);

but for an output of OV with Vs, = -5V, the

maximum sink current rises to 2.4mA. (Of

course, driving a load to ground with a

minimum output of OV requires no sink

capability.)

The source and sink capability is especially

important when the output is required to

drive a large capacitive load, as this to a

OnChip Systems

large extent determines the output charge

The information contained herein is believed to be accurate. No respon-

1190 Coleman Avenue

sibility Is assumed for any inaccuracies. This literature does not convey

to the purchaser any license under patent rights of the manufacturer or

San Jose, California 95110

time without notice.

others. OnChip reserves the right to make changes in the circuity at any

Telephone: 408.988.5400

©1991, OnChip Systems

Facsimile: 408.988.5488
